Add 2.19.0 release blog post (#134)
pantsbuild/pantsbuild.org: blog/2024-01-24-pants-2-19/index.mdx

We also offer [formal sponsorship tiers for companies](https://www.pantsbuild.org/sponsorship), as well as individual sponsorships via [GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/pantsbuild). These help pay for the ongoing development and hosting costs, and are managed by the Pants Build non-profit organization.

### New backends and subsystems

In this release, we welcome two new backends and one new subsystem.

[The new `openapi_format` backend](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/subsystems/openapi-format) supports running [openapi-format](https://github.com/thim81/openapi-format) to format `openapi_...` targets. You can enable this by adding `pants.backend.experimental.openapi.lint.openapi_format` to the list of active backends.

[The new `semgrep` backend](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/subsystems/semgrep) supports running [Semgrep](https://semgrep.dev) as a local linter on all files that Pants knows about (any target with a `source` or `sources` field). Configuration files are automatically discovered. You can enable this by adding `pants.backend.experimental.tools.semgrep` to the list of active backends.

> [The new `[system-binaries]` subsystem](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/subsystems/system-binaries) allows controlling where Pants searches for binaries like `bash`, `zip`, `tar` that is uses as part of normal operation. Set [the `system_binaries_paths`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/subsystems/system-binaries#system_binary_paths) as appropriate, potentially using the `<PATH>` special value. This can also be set on specific [environments](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/docs/using-pants/environments) using the `system_binaries_system_binary_paths` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[The new `[system-binaries]` subsystem](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/subsystems/system-binaries) allows controlling where Pants searches for binaries like `bash`, `zip`, `tar` that it uses as part of normal operation. See [the `system_binaries_paths`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/subsystems/system-binaries#system_binary_paths) as appropriate, potentially using the `<PATH>` special value. This can also be set on specific [environments](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/docs/using-pants/environments) using the `system_binaries_system_binary_paths` field.
```

Author: I rephrased it to be a bit more clear, what do you think?

### Built-in test retries (for Python)

Python tests can now be [attempted multiple times](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/docs/using-pants/using-pants-in-ci#tip-automatically-retry-failed-tests), if they fail. This can help with limiting the impact of flaky tests. For instance, to require tests to fail three times before the overall `pants test` goal fails, set [`[test].attempts_default = 3`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/goals/test#attempts_default). In this case, a very flaky test might fail on the first and second runs but finally pass on the third run, and thus the overall Pants invocation would pass.

> This functionality can be added to any other language with fairly little work. Do you want automatic retries for Scala, Go, or another language Pants supports? Come chat to us in [#development with Slack](https://pantsbuild.slack.com).

Reviewer 2: Potentially this link should be the CTA Google form link? And/or maybe we could link to https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/20378 as the central coordination.

Author: Yeah, I asked about the Google Forms link in the maintainers channel on Slack, will change it to there. Felt weird to link to link a Google Forms as a CTA, but will do so. And will add the issue too, thanks!

```python
# Creates two targets:
#
# example:tests@parametrize=py2
# example:tests@parametrize=py3

python_test(
    name="tests",
    source="tests.py",
    **parametrize("py2", interpreter_constraints=["==2.7.*"], resolve="lock-a"),
    **parametrize("py3", interpreter_constraints=[">=3.6,<3.7"], resolve="lock-b"),
)
```

In addition, `parametrize` can now be used with a single value (`field=parametrize("for-consistency")`), and now works on target generations in more cases (particularly those with "plugin" fields).

### Other noteworthy changes

- New versions of [the `get-pants.sh` script](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/docs/getting-started/installing-pants) install to `~/.local/bin`, not `~/bin`. Remember to update your CI pipelines!
- Environment variables that aren't valid UTF-8 no longer cause Pants to crash (note, `PANTS_...` environment variables that Pants needs to read but aren't UTF-8 will be ignored).
- Reference documentation for subsystem options includes how to set them in `pants.toml`, in addition to the environment variable and CLI arguments.

> - The `.pids/` internal directory is now under `.pants.d/` by default, rather that adjacent to it (this can be controlled via [the `[GLOBAL].pants_subprocessdir` option](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/global-options#pants_subprocessdir)).

Reviewer 2: From memory, other release blog posts will sometimes end with a repetition of the call to actions, etc, and/or some brief thanks. What do you think about doing that here too?

[The new `semgrep` backend](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/subsystems/semgrep) supports running [Semgrep](https://semgrep.dev) as a local linter on all files that Pants knows about (any target with a `source` or `sources` field). Configuration files are automatically discovered. You can enable this by adding `pants.backend.experimental.tools.semgrep` to the list of active backends.

[The new `[system-binaries]` subsystem](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/subsystems/system-binaries) allows controlling where Pants searches for binaries like `bash`, `zip`, `tar` that are used as part of normal operation. To change these paths set [the `system_binaries_paths` option](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/subsystems/system-binaries#system_binary_paths) as appropriate, potentially using the `<PATH>` special value. This can also be changed for specific [environments](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/docs/using-pants/environments) using the `system_binaries_system_binary_paths` field.

### Built-in test retries (for Python)

> Python tests can now be [attempted multiple times](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/docs/using-pants/using-pants-in-ci#tip-automatically-retry-failed-tests), if they fail. This can help with limiting the impact of flaky tests. For instance, to require tests to fail three times before the overall `pants test` goal fails, set [`[test].attempts_default = 3`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.19/reference/goals/test#attempts_default). In this case, a very flaky test might fail on the first and second runs but finally pass on the third run, and thus the overall Pants invocation would pass.

Reviewer 3: Should we mention how this affects caching?

Author: You will have to start by telling me I think, as I don't think it was in the notes either

Reviewer 3: Basically the failed runs aren't cached. The passing run is.

It's as if it was passing _the whole time_ 🪄

Author: That sounds about expected to me, and probably a bit too nitty for the blog post. If it isn't we should probably make sure it is clarified in the docs though.
